The AI in the video game The Sims often has it's quirks. Even if you know nothing about programming the actions of the characters in the game sometimes seems a little off, whether they accidentally set their kitchen on fire or maybe when they can't seem to find the bathroom in their own home. The Sims work off of AI and when you think about it, the concept of the AI for a Sim is not very complicated in theory they are a lot like humans. When the Sim gets hungry they need to eat. If the Sim has no money they need to go to work and maybe after work they need to take a shower. Where it gets more complicated is when dealing with the Sim's feelings. For example when a Sim is not feeling happy maybe they need to see a friend or make a new one. Happiness is also affected on things like hunger, such as if a Sim is too hungry for too long their happiness starts to decline. At the surface the Sims are simple, but in fact they are pretty complicated. This tutorial is meant to go over at the most basic level of how a Sim might think. The Sims have a lot of needs much like humans, but in this guide I am going over how an individual Sim's hunger AI could be shown for better understanding. The example of a Sim's hunger AI could implemented using if/else statements with integers. For example if the sim is completely full their hunger could be represented by 100. If a small amount time has gone by since the Sim had eaten last and they aren't very hungry this could be represented by 75 - 99. Also if the Sim hasn't eaten in a while but is not very hungry then that could be portrayed as 50 - 75 and if they starving then one could use the range 1 - 50 for their hunger. This gives the Sim and the user an identifiable way to know when the Sim should eat and when they don't have to. 


Cited Sources: https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/decision-making-c-c-else-nested-else/
                https://www.popularmechanics.com/culture/gaming/a10698/inside-the-mind-of-the-sims-4-16906802/
                https://www.researchgate.net/figure/AI-Characters-Called-Sims-in-the-God-Game-The-Sims-Reproduced-with-permission_fig2_220604466
